The President: This week,
together with our allies
and partners, partners,
we reached an historic
understanding with Iran,
which, if fully implemented,
will prevent it from obtaining
a nuclear weapon and make
our country, our allies,
and our world safer.
This framework is
the result of tough,
principled diplomacy.
It's a good deal -- a
deal that meets our core
objectives, including
strict limitations
on Iran's program and cutting
off every pathway that
Iran could take to
develop a nuclear weapon.
This deal denies Iran
the plutonium necessary
to build a bomb.
It shuts down Iran's
path to a bomb using
enriched uranium.
Iran has agreed that
it will not stockpile
the materials needed
to build a weapon.
Moreover, international
inspectors will have
unprecedented access to
Iran's nuclear program
because Iran will face
more inspections than
any other country
in the world.
If Iran cheats, the
world will know it.
If we see something
suspicious,
we will inspect it.
So this deal is not based
on trust, it's based
on unprecedented
verification.
And this is a long-term
deal, with strict limits
on Iran's program for
more than a decade and
unprecedented transparency
measures that will last
for 20 years or more.
And as a member of the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty, Iran will never
be permitted to develop
a nuclear weapon.
In return for Iran's
actions, the international
community, including the
United States, has agreed
to provide Iran with
phased relief from
certain sanctions.
If Iran violates
the deal, sanctions
can be snapped
back into place.
Meanwhile, other
American sanctions
on Iran for its support of
terrorism, its human rights
abuses, its ballistic missile
program, all will continue
to be enforced.
As I said this week, many
key details will need
to be finalized over
the next three months,
and nothing is agreed to
until everything is agreed.
And if there is
backsliding, there
will be no deal.
Here in the United States,
I expect a robust debate.
We'll keep Congress and
the American people fully
briefed on the
substance of the deal.
As we engage in this
debate, let's remember-we
really only have three
options for dealing with
Iran's nuclear program:
bombing Iran's nuclear
facilities-which will
only set its program back
a few years-while starting
another war in the
Middle East; abandoning
negotiations and hoping
for the best with
sanctions-even though
that's always led to Iran
making more progress
in its nuclear program; or
a robust and verifiable
deal like this one that
peacefully prevents Iran
from obtaining a
nuclear weapon.
As President and Commander
in Chief, I firmly believe
that the diplomatic
option-a comprehensive,
long-term deal like
this-is by far the
best option.
For the United States.
For our allies.
And for the world.
Our work -- this deal
-- is not yet done.
Diplomacy is
painstaking work.
Success is not
guaranteed.
But today we have an
historic opportunity
to prevent the spread of
nuclear weapons in Iran,
and to do so peacefully,
with the international
community firmly
behind us.
And this will be our work
in the days and months
ahead in keeping with
the best traditions of
American leadership.